Russian has nothing to do with Novgorod Moscow captured Novgorod, in my opinion, in the 10th century Wait Russian word Wait the word Russian this is after this this is already the next stage of ethnogenesis initially there were Slavic tribes Hello Hello Where are you from if the secret itself is from Rostov But I’ve been living for 18 years in California, in 2 years the city of Kazan will be ethnic Tatar Yes, not ethnic Well, I mean, I don’t know that you’re just putting in the Tatar nationality. Just if they ask, Tatar. If you are what else, maybe if you’re a Tatar, then How else could it be different, just me I don’t know, Tay, and so on, so I’ll clarify this once again. And who are you by nationality, Tatar? Well, who are you, 100% Ukrainian? Yes, it’s clear that you got cabbage soup as they say Yes, in Ukraine Well, somehow you said it wrong, well, yes, well, you understand. The main thing you said gray type in Ukrainian broad red cabbage soup is gray Yeah, are you a Ukrainian-speaking or Russian-speaking person? No, I grew up. My parents are from Ukraine, but they came to Rostov during the Soviet Union. Well, it was like that during the Soviet Union. I was born in Rostov, so it turns out I’m in Ukraine. No, well, you know the Ukrainian language, yes, I understand it occasionally, but I didn’t talk. Uh-huh. And what do you do in California, teacher of anthropology at the University of Sacramento, anthropology, yes, and what exactly do you teach anthropology? No, I mean, what is it about, what is included in this in this in this subject about human populations about their differences about theirs For example, you are there You have an epicanthus to the Asian type yes That is, in principle, it is immediately clear that you are either of Turkic or Mongolian ethnicity somewhere Yes, well, right away Yes, that’s why I immediately asked who according to National Why me I’m asking Yes, because I’m interested in what I’m doing on chatroulette. Type of people. Well, I’m interested, I see people. I’m wondering if I understood approximately his anthropological portrait. Yes, that’s what I did and I thought that you were either a Bashkort or a Tatar, but more in Tatar I didn’t brush it off, well, it was necessary to clarify because you also have Bashkartastan, Tatarstan, there are a lot of transitional ones, and on the territory of Bashkortostan, a large very ethnic part of the Tatars lives in Tatarstan and Maritsino, everything is often mixed there. Therefore, in anthropology this is called border ethnic zones Well in general, this is the territory of the Volga region, it is very political and here is what is most interesting here, unlike the Caucasus, where there are also a lot of nationalities, we here have quite historically established good relations between different nationalities. We have Finno-Ugric peoples here. Mari Mordva and so on But then it turns out Chuvash Bashkirs Chuva Chu Chuvash are essentially the Heirs of the former thieves' Bulgaria Chuvash and part of the Tatars like yes, well, in fact, the Tatars and the Chuvash are, uh, these are all former Bulgars, but they are Ethnogenesis very much Tatars were subjected to a very strong ethnogenesis of these m pchak peoples who came here, these are the Polovtsians and the Polovtsian Kazakhs, essentially modern Polovtsians - this is what very much united many Turks in modern Russia before the Crimea before the Crimea pchak type Polovtsian steppe was yes Very large yes Dada it’s all gender and by Don’t look not from the Crimea And even further The fact is that the Kipchak steppe of the region She said goodbye to the Danube and to the Danube to Hungary Yes, and moreover, even in Hungary there are still in Hungarian ones Although the point is that look in Hungary there there are also there in some I can’t say exactly now in some century Yes, they also took these Polovtsian warriors into the service and also these, and there are even a lot of villages that now bear that name The fact is that Hungary they are also newcomers you know, among the Hungarians, what are the closest two peoples to the Hungarians? Well, these are the Finno-Ugric peoples and the Turkic peoples. I don’t think which ones. Probably it’s probably the Maritsa, there is no Khanty and Manti, that’s uh by language by language group, yes, the Hungarians. The closest to the Khanty and Mansi. they have related languages. Here I am because the Hungarians passed through migration from Where they live Khant-Mansi through the Urals through this Polovtsian steppe, so to speak, they had. There is such a concept as elku for type Ethel ksh where they lived between the time they left their lands and came to Hungary through the Carpathians, they settled. Well, when they settled, this temporary camp was there for some years in these steppes, they also wandered and wandered and then they moved and settled there. The Bulgarians, too, uh, in Ukraine, the Bulgarians, by the way, are very close to the Tatars the people too, yes, yes, these are the Bulgars, but in fact, in fact, these were later the Turks. There they were mainly in the nobility, and the main composition is still the Slavic people. Yes, the Slavic people, so the thing is that the Bulgarians when, too, while they came there in the Balkans, uh, they were in these steppes and in the area of ​​​​the city of Zaporozhye And there is even opened there. I looked on the Internet for a monument to this Bulgarian khan asparukh asparukh Yes, asparukh that’s why he died there just so the thing is that this Steppe it was a migration, let’s say such a route from east to west, it was Yes, there was no one there, and at first there were also these Scythians, the rivers, the Jurassic peoples, there were also the Pechenegs, for example, but the Pechenegs, unlike the Polovtsians, look, look, they are modern according to the Oguzes, the Kopcha are the Pechenegs - this is the Agu group, this is what they are now extinct basics - this turns out to be Turks, Azerbaijanis and Turkmens, here are the Sa Ezes Yes, this is in Moldova, I think in Lithuania there is some very small settlement not in Lithuania No, look, there are a lot in Lithuania Tatars in Lithuania Tatars I was in Lithuania and saw Yes, the fact is that in Lithuania there are Tatars and in Lithuania there are Karaites, but the Karaites are not Turks. The fact is that when Wait, the Karaites are not Turks, they are not Turks, Karaites are separate Kams from them this is from the Crimea, they have this Judaism confession, and ethnically they are not Turkic, in my opinion Yeah, it’s clear, that is, they are some kind of autochthonous people, so Although I’ll have to look now, I’ll look, maybe there are Turks for the sake of interest, so, uh, a lot I thought they were Turks Karaites Now I’ll look Yes, many Tatars were in the service and moved to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania yes Because there were all sorts of persecutions there after the capture of Kazan And so on Well now I’ll look Karam I’m interested, by the way, most of those who are now called Russians Yes this there are the same Maritsa Tatars further, it’s just that they When they were baptized and baptized, they started a surname like there are Slavs, well, not the majority, you are this word, the majority was superfluous in your words, remember the rebirth of the noble families, yes no If you take the research that was carried out on exactly groups GAP groups groups a GAP groups if Group I'm sorry You'll see that it's precisely in these main groups that Slavic predominates among Russians Yes, the Karims are Kipchak Xia group of Karims Kipchak Group Yes, well, well, this is not Oghuz, that means according to the Slavic group of this R1 A1 So if we take maps, distribute it because we are anthropologists doing this, and the epicenters of this haplogroup r11 are located on the territory of Ukraine and Poland. There is this belt r11, it’s called r11 Balt from Podolia in Ukraine it’s there, Khmelnitsky Vinnytsia region and it stretches like that Wait, it seems in Poland it’s just R1 as it is just look, google it, even on the Internet there’s a picture and here’s R1 distribution Yes, the Epicenter there is more than 50% And then everything goes to Russia decrease and maybe they saw yes there is such a part of the Zigzag there it almost reaches India they didn’t see r11 I don’t remember Yes, the thing is that I The only thing I know is that quite strongly isolated readings are going on in the northern northern regions this is the Arkhangelsk region this is this this is the Marines here are the former Pomors, they still go a little apart. This is also a special type of Slavs, interesting, and also listen. I wanted to ask you, as a person who knows this enough, how do you explain why Sanskrit is so very close to the Slavic Slavic languages No, not to Slavic, look if you look Which of the modern languages ​​close to Sanskrit is Lithuanian Lithuanian is closer than other languages ​​​​close to Sanskrit You can look If you are interested in why, it is wrong to say that Sanskrit is similar to Slavic languages ​​It is more correct to say that all the languages ​​of the Indo-European group are similar in some way - then in Sanskrit Why Because it’s one One family of languages ​​Yes, if we say there milk like that in Russian milk in Ukrainian Milk in Czech milk yes in there it’s English LC Yes, there is mlk everywhere that’s why because it comes from a certain root The fact is that the European root is common, yes, yes, some words They have very distant roots They just changed vowels and some sounds changed, yes, but if we trace the etymology, yes, it all comes from the Proto-Indo-European Yes, the ancient Slavic languages ​​​​from some Germanic la also from the Europeans that’s all, so of course Wait, what will it be like in Lithuanian in Lithuanian 1 2 3 4 5 I don’t know I don’t know, it’s just that if you look at Sanskrit it will be exactly the same almost exactly the same for me it’s surprising I don’t know I can’t explain it that it will be exactly the same as what 1 2 3 4 because there, for example, what chess was called before You know chaturanga, it consisted of four parts chess used to be called Turan That is, it’s very close to the word four very close to four Well, because And if you take And if you take, for example, the Romano-Germanic group Although this is also an Indo-European language there it’s generally far from Well why The point is that you are looking You took certain words And others The point is that every wait I say Take Take the name of relatives, these are the most rarely changed among linguists. As far as I know, there is such a marker Yes, when very close family ties they rarely change Over time, this is not correct, look if you are interested, but if you really want to be interested in this, read this list USA so there was such a linguist SSH He created lists, there is a marker of words by which similarity can be found. Yes, for example, there is a list of 100 words, for example, yes, a list of different words, there are lists from Richa, and using it, the match is determined by how long ago the languages ​​diverged, for example, conditionally if 80 of these 100 words match, it means the languages ​​diverged somewhere there 100 years ago, and if only 20 coincide, it means they diverged there, for example, 1,000 years ago, and if less than five coincide, it means there 2,000 years ago, and so on. So this is more I’m just I’m saying about this that I don’t know whether it was related or not. There is a theory that there are close family ties, for example there’s mom, dad, there’s sister, there’s even words like brother-in-law, here’s the word brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law. These are the words they have in Sanskrit, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, the same thing sounds here, then numbers 1 2 3 4 5 this is also not very susceptible to change, that is, well, look in Sanskrit, father is Peter, and just like in the German novel, it’s Padre da Vater, like, you see, it turns out that some things are in the process of evolution Yes, some things have changed in one language and in the other they remain and in the other they are different so you saw the quotient four Yes four and there is chatur yes and there pho and you think about No, I’m saying that it’s not four I’m saying that from one to de I’m not saying I’m not I’m saying that I’m not comparing that Roman and German are further or closer. I’m just saying that it’s amazing how close they are. Look again, for example, these Peter father is cunning daughter, that’s how Slavic is, that’s doter Yes, in German in English it’s just more looks like yes here he is cunning yes what is our daughter Yes here is uh husband harter too It doesn’t look like us Yes In the girl the girl Virgo I don’t know but the sister is a quarrel and here we have well and the Germans have a sea sister it just changes some things change in Voice, some are in consonants Yes, and that’s why you can’t just snatch out some Slovaks, look, our numbers look like that means we are all similar to Sanskrit, that is, gosh, I didn’t talk about that. I’m talking about the fact that it’s amazing how Slavic languages ​​are similar to Sanskrit, but at the same time I I didn’t want to say at all that others Look, look, I’ll say the thing with me is that I myself am an anthropologist, but my wife is a linguist Yes, my wife is a linguist, so I know about these lists in the SVD And so on, yes, that is, uh, you can’t say that Slavic languages ​​are similar to Sanskrit, it’s just that we can see individually, for example, uh, some words there in Russian and in there in Chinese. Yes, and we can’t say that they are similar, that is, uh, linguists draw a conclusion about the similarity only on the basis of a whole complex of words, individual can yes, plus individual could have been borrowed, for example, from other languages ​​in some You know, by the way, the division According to the number 100 in languages ​​What I didn’t understand, there is such a division in linguistics, centum saum, you don’t know, no, I’m a layman, you look on Google Then, for the sake of interest, Yes, there is, uh division in languages ​​In Europe, yes, the cent, here the number 100 e in certain languages ​​has the root cent Yes, for example, as in German novels And so on Yes there, and in the more eastern ones there itself Yes, here we have 100 from there and this is Centrum Centrum itself Yes, there is a clear division, I’ll open this map now to be more precise. Uh-huh, when my wife told me this, I was also surprised. Yes, there’s a whole Wikipedia out there. Well, Balto, glorifying, is himself, and Herman Kel is a centum. And by the way, this is very interesting, remember, it’s an interesting thing there are and there are a lot of prices there I’ll google prices Well, that is, what they call it 100, yes, that is, somewhere around 100g, look at it because of the Glo on this Kent itself, it’s like, in our type, it’s written from Glo Ken By the way, what about About the Celts And here you are you don’t know where the Celts went they still live now a a Who are they Who are they over in Switzerland in Portugal in France these are some separate nationalities May Yes and the Irish look let’s say the Irish are Celts they even have a language group chum salmon Yes the Scots are Celts yes uh on In Britain there were still tribes of the Britons and so on there the Briganti Briganti dreamed of the Scots the Celts and Paris Why do you call Paris by the way you know no because it was the city of the capital of the Parisi Kelle tribe they were later in modern France conquered by the Germanic times of the Franks there Charlemagne Chloe Portugal and so Caesar when here the Roman Leagues fought with Gaul, here France was all there, Gaul was the Gaul tribes, these were the Celts, moreover, the north of Italy, yes there were Telier Veneto tribes from here Venice, by the way, Switzerland, look, there are researchers, there are researchers that the Wends are very closely intertwined with the Slavs No, this is not this you are confusing with the Wends there are the Wends who were here And this is Vienna these are the Vandals who later became this These are the other Vandals - these are the German tribes the Vandals are the German tribes Here I am, here I have a theory I just heard that the Vandals belong to the proto-Slavs No no Vandals - these were Germanic tribes It’s exactly like this What is the name of the Swiss, for example, in Switzerland they once saw a Domin on the Internet Here in Russia ru And in Switzerland I don’t remember well CH CH Yes why why why confederation Helvetica Helwegen veto Köhls tribes Helwegen from the large ones we get the Lamothe, we look at the Lants and the Scots - these are the Celts who preserved their language, so the French Yes, the French - these are the same Celts who mixed with the Germanic tribes with the Franks, the Portuguese are also there and so on, that is, well, wait, the French, no, wait the French after all These are purely Germans, it seems to me like purely Germans Well, these are purely Franks, they just took it, it’s also the Franks, the French, yes, let’s start with the fact that France before the Great French Revolution Yes, there was no such thing as the French, the Burgundians were there, the Warts, and so on these were actually different ethnic groups, in fact, and which then merged into a single nation, well, these were mostly Germanic tribes, look, you see how you correctly said about the Bulgarians Yes, that the Bulgarians were Turks, yes, but basically the nobility was Turkic and they assimilated with the local population who it was Slavic, it’s the same here, that is, a huge number of Kels lived in this territory Yes, the Franks conquered the Franks Who are the Franks, that is, essentially a military nobility and a military nobility Yes, they made the Carolingian dynasty from Charlemagne, it turns out, and so they ruled and the population was like this well, that’s all Well, it’s clear This is Genesis in general Like how Ethnogenesis a little somehow It’s strange you say this term Well Ethnogenesis Ethnogenesis you know Well Ethnogenesis Yes but no Ethnogenesis I’m hearing this for the first time Well, you’re probably just forgetting that you live in America some words, well, such a word I haven’t heard I’m just studying Russian too Yes, we went through the stage of ethnogenesis, like there like that, like Uh-huh leg Well, I think it’s quite interesting, interesting, very informative, I’ll tell you And by the way, it’s the same about tacos I’ll tell you the same thing as uh modern Russia Yes, those who are called Russian Yes, these are different Finno-Ugric tribes uh on which the Slavic nobility came Yes military, that is, who the prince was Yes, for example, let’s take in some Suzdal this principality was sent from Kiev by a prince, it’s like now the governor came from Moscow, for example, but in Buryatia he doesn’t get up because of this, the Buryats, and the people who live in Buryatia, because the prince came from Moscow, did not become Russians. Yes, and here the prince sent his task was What to collect Tribute to collect Tribute to organize This the process is that people lived there, that is, Finno-Ugric tribes, a huge number of no relocations of the Slavs Yes, from Teri, what were the names of these tribes that lived on the territory of Eastern Europe on the territory of the modern Moscow region Yes, and so on from Moscow, wait, wait, wait, wait, the Moscow region is already Us we are already talking further. Here, the Slavic East Slavic pna were originally formed, look Yes, on the territory of Kievan Rus there are no more Drevlyans, but on the territory on the territory of Russia lived the Drevlyans, the northerners, the streets, Tivertsy, and the Polyanin called it in my opinion. Yes, the White Croats lived here too, and the Krivichi lived here, the Krivichi - this modern Belarusians, in essence, yes, that is, well, in my opinion, the Drevlyans are also Belarusians, the Drevlyans, some of the Drevlyans took part in the ethnogenesis of the Belarusians, some in the ethnogenesis of the Ukrainians, yes, that is, the Drevlyans, for example, of the Zhytomyr region, they became Ukrainians, the Drevlyans of the regions who went to Belarus, they They formed, that is, a river and a river it turns out that the rivers were a natural watershed in different historical periods Yes, ethnogenesis is difficult in different ways under the influence of others, which is why the Krivichi are essentially these Belarusians Yes, but on the territory there was a Slavic tribe that lived on the territory of the Moscow region there were no Ugric tribes there I know Well, in fact, it would be very swampy, well, not very much, in fact, Moscow region Yes, if you are talking specifically about the Moscow region Because if we are talking about Rus', then this is a huge territory, it’s not only Moscow, there is no border control, look Let’s correctly separate the territories there are territories which were controlled by Russia Yes, for example, Russia was this, this is part of modern Ukraine and Belarus This was Russia Yes Novgorod Novgorod was not a fleece Novgorod was dependent on Russia For example, with Well, wait, how is this Wait, uh, the same as the same as that, look the same as now for example Chechnya wait wait We have us we have us and you We have princes who ruled in Novgorod Kiev princes go away children went to rule in Novgorod flax I told you to Novgorod in Suzdal That is, they were sent like a governor is sent there Yes these are the territories from which Tribute was collected, these are controlled territories, that’s how it is in the chronicles, well, in the chronicles they clearly write, we went from Novgorod to Rus', what kind of Tribute there were tribes, some originally Sphorian Slavic tribes, that is, it’s not just a city, Slavic tribes lived in Novgorod, iski all the Ilmen Slovenian Russians have nothing to do with Novgorod Moscow capture Novgorod I'm lying the word Russians this is already the next stage of genesis initially there were Slavic tribes Slavic tribes Slavic tribes appeared as the first, well, here are the first ones who began to unite them under some kind of unified generality, this is what I understand from the Rurikovichs, let's go there again, looks again, firstly, this is an invented character in history, there is no Rurik, that is, Rurik is an invented character, and in history there are historians who say that this is not an invented character, no, look once again, there is no evidence of Rurik anywhere Rurik, look at this, there are some historians who say that there is And there are some historians who say that the official history of Rurik considers legendary just the official history says some of the official historians say that there is You, you’re a learned person, you you can’t say unambiguously, when you say no, interrupt me because I understand more about this Yes, I still have a specialized education, look when we say that something exists, you need to confirm it until you confirm it no Where is there a mention of Rurik Well, there is how since historians who say that there is where there is a mention of Rurik where Well, I’m not a historian I’m saying that there is Iri I’ll tell you only in the Tale of Bygone Years where they talk about the Bible also talk to the Sun in short forget no Rurik look there is no Rurik all archaeologists are just modern don’t interrupt me when I speak, I turn off the sound when I speak so that you don’t interrupt me, I’m not listening to you at this moment, that’s where Murik ran away and got burned, come on, how they don’t like to hear that there were no Slavs there in Russia since they were born Yes, never like this, subscribe to th instag I don’t know why this is why what is there to marvel at the whole face and for you it’s one two or three clicks Aleti trime me and I’ll be KTA in me there A bunch of fouls and in me there’ll be a great setup to do robiti Novi cru video write on th and pok Andriy so Let me check for you